docs/sdk/tutorials/tokenizers/index_nb.md, before:

---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.15.2
  kernelspec:
    display_name: konfuzio
    language: python
    name: python3
---

## Tokenization

---

**Prerequisites:**

- Access to a Project on the Konfuzio Server.
- Data Layer concepts of Konfuzio: Document, Project, Bbox, Span, Label

**Difficulty:** Easy

**Goal:** Be familiar with the concept of tokenization and master how different tokenization approaches can be used with Konfuzio.

---

### Introduction
In this tutorial, we will explore the concept of tokenization and the various tokenization strategies available in the Konfuzio SDK. Tokenization is a foundational tool in natural language processing (NLP) that involves breaking text into smaller units called tokens. We will focus on the <a href="#whitespace-tokenization">WhitespaceTokenizer</a>, <a href="#regex-tokenization-for-specific-labels">Label-Specific RegexTokenizer</a>, <a href="#paragraph-tokenization">ParagraphTokenizer</a>, and <a href="#sentence-tokenization">SentenceTokenizer</a> as different tools for different tokenization tasks. Additionally, we will discuss <a href="#choosing-the-right-tokenizer">how to choose</a> the right tokenizer and <a href="#verify-that-a-tokenizer-finds-all-labels">how to verify</a> that a tokenizer has found all Labels.


### Whitespace Tokenization
The `WhitespaceTokenizer`, [part of the Konfuzio SDK](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex.WhitespaceTokenizer), is a simple yet effective tool for basic tokenization tasks. It segments text into tokens using whitespaces, tabs, and newlines as natural delimiters.

#### Use case: retrieving the word-level Bounding Boxes for a Document
In this section, we will walk through how to use the `WhitespaceTokenizer` to extract word-level Bounding Boxes for a Document.

We will use the Konfuzio SDK to tokenize the Document and identify word-level Spans, which can then be visualized or used to extract Bounding Box information.

```python tags=["remove-cell"]
# This is necessary to make sure we can import from 'tests'
import sys
sys.path.insert(0, '../../../../')

from tests.variables import TEST_PROJECT_ID, TEST_DOCUMENT_ID, TEST_PAYSLIPS_CATEGORY_ID, TEST_CATEGORIZATION_DOCUMENT_ID
import logging
logging.getLogger("konfuzio_sdk").setLevel(logging.ERROR)
```

First, we import necessary modules:
```python
from copy import deepcopy
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import WhitespaceTokenizer
```

Next, initialize a Project and a Document instance. The variables `TEST_PROJECT_ID` and `TEST_DOCUMENT_ID` are placeholders that need to be replaced with actual values when running these steps. Make sure to use a Project and a Document to which you have access.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
```

We create a copy of the Document object to make sure it contains no Annotations. This is needed because during tokenization, new 1-Span-long Annotations are created.
```python
document = deepcopy(document)
```

Then, we tokenize the Document using the Whitespace Tokenizer. It creates new Spans in the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
tokenizer = WhitespaceTokenizer()
tokenized = tokenizer.tokenize(document)
```

Now we can visually check that the Bounding Boxes are correctly assigned.

```python
tokenized.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

Observe how each individual word is enclosed in a Bounding Box. Also note that there are no Labels in the Annotations associated with the Bounding Boxes, thereby the placeholder 'NO_LABEL' is shown above each Bounding Box.

Each Bounding Box is associated with a specific word and is defined by four coordinates:
- x0 and y0 specify the coordinates of the bottom left corner;
- x1 and y1 specify the coordinates of the top right corner

This is used to determine the size and position of the Box on the Page.

All Bounding Boxes calculated after tokenization can be obtained as follows:

```python
span_bboxes = [span.bbox() for span in tokenized.spans()]
```

Let us inspect the first 10 Bounding Boxes' coordinates to verify that each comprises 4 coordinate points.

```python
span_bboxes[:10]
```

To summarize, here is the full code:

```python tags=["skip-execution", "nbval-skip"]
from copy import deepcopy
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import WhitespaceTokenizer

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)

document = deepcopy(document)

tokenizer = WhitespaceTokenizer()
tokenized = tokenizer.tokenize(document)

tokenized.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)

span_bboxes = [span.bbox() for span in tokenized.spans()]
span_bboxes[:10]
```

Note: The variables TEST_PROJECT_ID and TEST_DOCUMENT_ID are placeholders and need to be replaced. Remember to use a Project and Document id to which you have access. 


### Regex Tokenization for Specific Labels
In some cases, especially when dealing with intricate Annotation strings, a custom [RegexTokenizer](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#regex-tokenizer) can offer a powerful solution. Unlike the basic `WhitespaceTokenizer`, which split text based on spaces, tabs and newlines, `RegexTokenizer` utilizes regular expressions to define complex patterns for identifying and extracting tokens. This tutorial will guide you through the process of creating and training your own RegexTokenizer, providing you with a versatile tool to handle even the most challenging tokenization tasks. Let's get started!

In this example, we will see how to find regular expressions that match with occurrences of the "Lohnart" (which approximately means _type of salary_ in German) Label in the training data, namely Documents that have been annotated by hand.

First, we import necessary modules:

```python
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import RegexTokenizer
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.base import ListTokenizer
```

Then, we initialize the Project and obtain the Category. We need to obtain an instance of the Category which will be used later to achieve what we need: find the best regular expression matching our Label of interest.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
category = my_project.get_category_by_id(id_=TEST_PAYSLIPS_CATEGORY_ID)
```

We use the [ListTokenizer](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#list-tokenizer), a class that provides a way to organize and apply multiple tokenizers to a Document, allowing for complex tokenization pipelines in natural language processing tasks. In this case, we simply use to hold our regular expression tokenizers.

```python
tokenizer_list = ListTokenizer(tokenizers=[])
```

Retrieve the "Lohnart" Label using its name.

```python
label = my_project.get_label_by_name("Lohnart")
```

Find regular expressions and create RegexTokenizers. We now use `Label.find_regex` to algorithmically search for the best fitting regular expressions matching the Annotations associated with this Label. Each RegexTokenizer is collected in the container object `tokenizer_list`.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
regexes = label.find_regex(category=category)
```

Let's see how many and which regexes have been found.
```python
print(len(regexes))

for regex in regexes:
    print(regex)
    regex_tokenizer = RegexTokenizer(regex=regex)
    tokenizer_list.tokenizers.append(regex_tokenizer)
```

Finally, we can use the TokenizerList instance to create new `NO_LABEL` Annotations for each string in the Document matching the regex patterns found.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
document = my_project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
document = tokenizer_list.tokenize(document)
```

To summarize, here is the complete code of our regex tokenization example.

```python tags=["skip-execution", "nbval-skip"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import RegexTokenizer
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.base import ListTokenizer

my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
category = my_project.get_category_by_id(id_=TEST_PAYSLIPS_CATEGORY_ID)

tokenizer_list = ListTokenizer(tokenizers=[])
label = my_project.get_label_by_name("Lohnart")
regexes = label.find_regex(category=category)

print(len(regexes))

for regex in regexes:
    print(regex)
    regex_tokenizer = RegexTokenizer(regex=regex)
    tokenizer_list.tokenizers.append(regex_tokenizer)

document = my_project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
document = tokenizer_list.tokenize(document)
```

### Paragraph Tokenization


The `ParagraphTokenizer` [class](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#paragraph-tokenizer) is a specialized tool designed to segment a Document into paragraphs. It offers two modes of operation: `detectron` and `line_distance`.

To determine the mode of operation, the `mode` constructor parameter is used, it can take two values: `detectron` (default) or `line_distance`. In `detectron` mode, the Tokenizer uses a fine-tuned Detectron2 model to assist in Document segmentation. While this mode tends to be more accurate, it is slower as it requires making an API call to the model hosted on Konfuzio servers. On the other hand, the `line_distance` mode uses a rule-based approach that is faster but less accurate, especially with Documents having two columns or other complex layouts.


#### line_distance Approach
It provides an efficient way to segment Documents based on line heights, making it particularly useful for simple, single-column formats. Although it may have limitations with complex layouts, its swift processing and relatively accurate results make it a practical choice for tasks where speed is a priority and the Document structure isn't overly complicated.

##### Parameters
The behavior of the `line_distance` approach can be adjusted with the following parameters.
- `line_height_ratio`: (Float) Specifies the ratio of the median line height used as a threshold to create a new paragraph when using the Tokenizer in `line_distance` mode. The default value is 0.8, which is used as a coefficient when calculating median vertical character size for Page. If you find that the Tokenizer is not creating new paragraphs when it should, you can try **lowering** this value. Alternatively, if the Tokenizer is creating too many paragraphs, you can try **increasing** this value.

- `height`: (Float) This optional parameter allows you to define a specific line height threshold for creating new paragraphs. If set to None, the Tokenizer uses an intelligently calculated height threshold.

Using the `ParagraphTokenizer` in `line_distance` mode boils down to creating a `ParagraphTokenizer` instance and use it do tokenize a Document. 

Let's import the needed modules and initialize the Project and the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import ParagraphTokenizer

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
```

Initialize the `ParagraphTokenizer` and tokenize the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
tokenizer = ParagraphTokenizer(mode='line_distance')
document = tokenizer(document)
```

Then, we fetch the image representing the first page of the Document to visualize the Annotations generated by the tokenizer. Set `display_all=True` to show NO_LABEL Annotations.

```python
document.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

Due to the complexity of the Document we processed, the `line_distance` approach does not perform very well. We can see that a simpler Document that has a more linear structure gives better results:

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project, Document
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import ParagraphTokenizer
from copy import deepcopy

my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)

sample_doc = Document.from_file("sample.pdf", project=my_project, sync=True)
deepcopied_doc = deepcopy(sample_doc)
tokenizer = ParagraphTokenizer(mode='line_distance')

tokenized_doc = tokenizer(deepcopied_doc)
```

```python tags=["remove-cell"]
tokenized_doc.pages()[0].image_width = 1100
tokenized_doc.pages()[0].image_height = 1400
```

```python
tokenized_doc.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

```python tags=["remove-cell"]
sample_doc.delete(delete_online=True)
```

Note that this example uses a PDF file named 'sample.pdf', you can download this file <a href="sample.pdf">here</a> in case you wish to try running this code.


#### Detectron (CV) Approach
With the Computer Vision (CV) approach, we can create Labels, identify figures, tables, lists, texts, and titles, thereby giving us a comprehensive understanding of the Document's structure.

Using the Computer Vision approach might require more processing power and might be slower compared to the `line_distance` approach, but the significant leap in the comprehensiveness of the output makes it a powerful tool.

##### Parameters
- `create_detectron_labels`: (Boolean, default: False) if set to True, Labels will be created and assigned to the Document. Labels may include `figure`, `table`, `list`, `text` and `title`. If this option is set to False, the Tokenizer will create `NO_LABEL` Annotations.


Using a Tokenizer in `detectron` mode boils down to passing `detectron` ot the `mode` argument of the `ParagraphTokenizer`. 

Make necessary imports, initialize the Project and the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import ParagraphTokenizer

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
```

Initialize the tokenizer and tokenize the Document.
```python
tokenizer = ParagraphTokenizer(mode='detectron', create_detectron_labels=True)

tokenized = tokenizer(document)
```

```python
tokenized.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image()
```

Comparing this result to tokenizing the same Document with the `line_distance` approach it is evident that the `detectron` mode can extract a meaningful structure from a relatively complex Document.


### Sentence Tokenization

The `SentenceTokenizer` is a specialized [tokenizer](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#sentence-tokenizer) designed to split text into sentences. Similarly to the ParagraphTokenizer, it has two modes of operation: `detectron` and `line_distance`, and accepts the same additional parameters: `line_height_ratio`, `height` and `create_detectron_labels`.

To use it, import the necessary modules, initialize the Project, the Document, and the Tokenizer and tokenize the Document.
```python tags=["remove-cell"]
YOUR_DOCUMENT_ID = 5679477
```

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import SentenceTokenizer
from copy import deepcopy

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID, update=True)

doc = project.get_document_by_id(YOUR_DOCUMENT_ID)

tokenizer = SentenceTokenizer(mode='detectron')

tokenized = tokenizer(doc)
```

Visualize the output:
```python
tokenized.get_page_by_index(1).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

### Choosing the right tokenizer

When it comes to natural language processing (NLP), choosing the correct tokenizer can make a significant impact on your system's performance and accuracy. The Konfuzio SDK offers several tokenization options, each suited to different tasks:

- **WhitespaceTokenizer**: Perfect for basic word-level processing. This tokenizer breaks text into chunks separated by whitespaces, tabs and newlines. It is ideal for straightforward tasks such as basic keyword extraction.

- **Label-Specific RegexTokenizer**: Known as character detection mode on the Konfuzio server, this tokenizer offers more specialized functionality. It uses Annotations of a Label within a training set to pinpoint and tokenize precise chunks of text. It is especially effective for tasks like entity recognition, where accuracy is paramount. By recognizing specific word or character patterns, it allows for more precise and nuanced data processing.

- **ParagraphTokenizer**: Identifies and separates larger text chunks - paragraphs. This is beneficial when your text’s interpretation relies heavily on the context at the paragraph level.

- **SentenceTokenizer**: Segments text into sentences. This is useful when the meaning of your text depends on the context provided at the sentence level.

Choosing the right Tokenizer is a matter of understanding your NLP task, the structure of your data, and the degree of detail your processing requires. By aligning these elements with the functionalities provided by the different tokenizers in the Konfuzio SDK, you can select the best tool for your task.


### Verify that a tokenizer finds all Labels

To help you choose the right tokenizer for your task, it can be useful to try out different tokenizers and see which Spans are found by which tokenizer. The `Label` class provides a method called `spans_not_found_by_tokenizer` that can he helpful in this regard.

Here is an example of how to use the `Label.spans_not_found_by_tokenizer` method. This will allow you to determine if a RegexTokenizer is suitable at finding the Spans of a Label, or what Spans might have been annotated wrong. Say, you have a number of Annotations assigned to the `Austellungsdatum` Label and want to know which Spans would not be found when using the WhitespaceTokenizer. You can follow this example to find all the relevant Spans.

```python
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import WhitespaceTokenizer

my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
category = my_project.categories[0]

tokenizer = WhitespaceTokenizer()

label = my_project.get_label_by_name('Austellungsdatum')

spans_not_found = label.spans_not_found_by_tokenizer(tokenizer, categories=[category])

for span in spans_not_found:
    print(f"{span}: {span.offset_string}")
```

### Conclusion
In this tutorial, we have walked through the essentials of tokenization. We have shown how the Konfuzio SDK can be configured to use different strategies to chunk your input text into tokens, before it is further processed to extract data from it.

We have seen the `WhitespaceTokenizer`, splitting text into chunks delimeted by white spaces. We have seen the more complex `RogexTokenizer`, which can be configured to use regular expressions to define delimiters matching any arbitrary regular expression. Furthermore, we have shown how regular expressions can be automatically found to be then used by the `RegexTokenizer`. We have also seen the `Paragraph`- and `SentenceTokenizer`, delimiting text according paragraphs and sentences respectively, and their different modes of use: `line_distance` for simpler Documents, and `detectron` for Documents with a more complex structure.


### What's Next?

- <a href="/sdk/tutorials/information_extraction"> Find out how to train a custom Extraction AI model</a>

Commit message:

Added: installation link and quick start notebook

docs/sdk/tutorials/tokenizers/index_nb.md, after:

---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.15.2
  kernelspec:
    display_name: konfuzio
    language: python
    name: python3
---

## Tokenization

---

**Prerequisites:**

- Access to a Project on the Konfuzio Server.
- Data Layer concepts of Konfuzio: Document, Project, Bbox, Span, Label

**Difficulty:** Easy

**Goal:** Be familiar with the concept of tokenization and master how different tokenization approaches can be used with Konfuzio.

---

### Environment
You need to install the Konfuzio SDK before diving into the tutorial. \
To get up and running quickly, you can use our Colab Quick Start notebook. \
<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/konfuzio-sdk/blob/master/notebooks/Get_started_with_the_Konfuzio_SDK.ipynb" target="_parent"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>

As an alternative you can follow the [installation section](get_started.html#install-sdk) to install and initialize the Konfuzio SDK locally or on an environment of your choice.

### Introduction
In this tutorial, we will explore the concept of tokenization and the various tokenization strategies available in the Konfuzio SDK. Tokenization is a foundational tool in natural language processing (NLP) that involves breaking text into smaller units called tokens. We will focus on the <a href="#whitespace-tokenization">WhitespaceTokenizer</a>, <a href="#regex-tokenization-for-specific-labels">Label-Specific RegexTokenizer</a>, <a href="#paragraph-tokenization">ParagraphTokenizer</a>, and <a href="#sentence-tokenization">SentenceTokenizer</a> as different tools for different tokenization tasks. Additionally, we will discuss <a href="#choosing-the-right-tokenizer">how to choose</a> the right tokenizer and <a href="#verify-that-a-tokenizer-finds-all-labels">how to verify</a> that a tokenizer has found all Labels.


### Whitespace Tokenization
The `WhitespaceTokenizer`, [part of the Konfuzio SDK](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex.WhitespaceTokenizer), is a simple yet effective tool for basic tokenization tasks. It segments text into tokens using whitespaces, tabs, and newlines as natural delimiters.

#### Use case: retrieving the word-level Bounding Boxes for a Document
In this section, we will walk through how to use the `WhitespaceTokenizer` to extract word-level Bounding Boxes for a Document.

We will use the Konfuzio SDK to tokenize the Document and identify word-level Spans, which can then be visualized or used to extract Bounding Box information.

```python tags=["remove-cell"]
# This is necessary to make sure we can import from 'tests'
import sys
sys.path.insert(0, '../../../../')

from tests.variables import TEST_PROJECT_ID, TEST_DOCUMENT_ID, TEST_PAYSLIPS_CATEGORY_ID, TEST_CATEGORIZATION_DOCUMENT_ID
import logging
logging.getLogger("konfuzio_sdk").setLevel(logging.ERROR)
```

First, we import necessary modules:
```python
from copy import deepcopy
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import WhitespaceTokenizer
```

Next, initialize a Project and a Document instance. The variables `TEST_PROJECT_ID` and `TEST_DOCUMENT_ID` are placeholders that need to be replaced with actual values when running these steps. Make sure to use a Project and a Document to which you have access.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
```

We create a copy of the Document object to make sure it contains no Annotations. This is needed because during tokenization, new 1-Span-long Annotations are created.
```python
document = deepcopy(document)
```

Then, we tokenize the Document using the Whitespace Tokenizer. It creates new Spans in the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
tokenizer = WhitespaceTokenizer()
tokenized = tokenizer.tokenize(document)
```

Now we can visually check that the Bounding Boxes are correctly assigned.

```python
tokenized.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

Observe how each individual word is enclosed in a Bounding Box. Also note that there are no Labels in the Annotations associated with the Bounding Boxes, thereby the placeholder 'NO_LABEL' is shown above each Bounding Box.

Each Bounding Box is associated with a specific word and is defined by four coordinates:
- x0 and y0 specify the coordinates of the bottom left corner;
- x1 and y1 specify the coordinates of the top right corner

This is used to determine the size and position of the Box on the Page.

All Bounding Boxes calculated after tokenization can be obtained as follows:

```python
span_bboxes = [span.bbox() for span in tokenized.spans()]
```

Let us inspect the first 10 Bounding Boxes' coordinates to verify that each comprises 4 coordinate points.

```python
span_bboxes[:10]
```

To summarize, here is the full code:

```python tags=["skip-execution", "nbval-skip"]
from copy import deepcopy
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import WhitespaceTokenizer

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)

document = deepcopy(document)

tokenizer = WhitespaceTokenizer()
tokenized = tokenizer.tokenize(document)

tokenized.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)

span_bboxes = [span.bbox() for span in tokenized.spans()]
span_bboxes[:10]
```

Note: The variables TEST_PROJECT_ID and TEST_DOCUMENT_ID are placeholders and need to be replaced. Remember to use a Project and Document id to which you have access. 


### Regex Tokenization for Specific Labels
In some cases, especially when dealing with intricate Annotation strings, a custom [RegexTokenizer](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#regex-tokenizer) can offer a powerful solution. Unlike the basic `WhitespaceTokenizer`, which split text based on spaces, tabs and newlines, `RegexTokenizer` utilizes regular expressions to define complex patterns for identifying and extracting tokens. This tutorial will guide you through the process of creating and training your own RegexTokenizer, providing you with a versatile tool to handle even the most challenging tokenization tasks. Let's get started!

In this example, we will see how to find regular expressions that match with occurrences of the "Lohnart" (which approximately means _type of salary_ in German) Label in the training data, namely Documents that have been annotated by hand.

First, we import necessary modules:

```python
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import RegexTokenizer
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.base import ListTokenizer
```

Then, we initialize the Project and obtain the Category. We need to obtain an instance of the Category which will be used later to achieve what we need: find the best regular expression matching our Label of interest.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
category = my_project.get_category_by_id(id_=TEST_PAYSLIPS_CATEGORY_ID)
```

We use the [ListTokenizer](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#list-tokenizer), a class that provides a way to organize and apply multiple tokenizers to a Document, allowing for complex tokenization pipelines in natural language processing tasks. In this case, we simply use to hold our regular expression tokenizers.

```python
tokenizer_list = ListTokenizer(tokenizers=[])
```

Retrieve the "Lohnart" Label using its name.

```python
label = my_project.get_label_by_name("Lohnart")
```

Find regular expressions and create RegexTokenizers. We now use `Label.find_regex` to algorithmically search for the best fitting regular expressions matching the Annotations associated with this Label. Each RegexTokenizer is collected in the container object `tokenizer_list`.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
regexes = label.find_regex(category=category)
```

Let's see how many and which regexes have been found.
```python
print(len(regexes))

for regex in regexes:
    print(regex)
    regex_tokenizer = RegexTokenizer(regex=regex)
    tokenizer_list.tokenizers.append(regex_tokenizer)
```

Finally, we can use the TokenizerList instance to create new `NO_LABEL` Annotations for each string in the Document matching the regex patterns found.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
document = my_project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
document = tokenizer_list.tokenize(document)
```

To summarize, here is the complete code of our regex tokenization example.

```python tags=["skip-execution", "nbval-skip"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import RegexTokenizer
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.base import ListTokenizer

my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
category = my_project.get_category_by_id(id_=TEST_PAYSLIPS_CATEGORY_ID)

tokenizer_list = ListTokenizer(tokenizers=[])
label = my_project.get_label_by_name("Lohnart")
regexes = label.find_regex(category=category)

print(len(regexes))

for regex in regexes:
    print(regex)
    regex_tokenizer = RegexTokenizer(regex=regex)
    tokenizer_list.tokenizers.append(regex_tokenizer)

document = my_project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
document = tokenizer_list.tokenize(document)
```

### Paragraph Tokenization


The `ParagraphTokenizer` [class](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#paragraph-tokenizer) is a specialized tool designed to segment a Document into paragraphs. It offers two modes of operation: `detectron` and `line_distance`.

To determine the mode of operation, the `mode` constructor parameter is used, it can take two values: `detectron` (default) or `line_distance`. In `detectron` mode, the Tokenizer uses a fine-tuned Detectron2 model to assist in Document segmentation. While this mode tends to be more accurate, it is slower as it requires making an API call to the model hosted on Konfuzio servers. On the other hand, the `line_distance` mode uses a rule-based approach that is faster but less accurate, especially with Documents having two columns or other complex layouts.


#### line_distance Approach
It provides an efficient way to segment Documents based on line heights, making it particularly useful for simple, single-column formats. Although it may have limitations with complex layouts, its swift processing and relatively accurate results make it a practical choice for tasks where speed is a priority and the Document structure isn't overly complicated.

##### Parameters
The behavior of the `line_distance` approach can be adjusted with the following parameters.
- `line_height_ratio`: (Float) Specifies the ratio of the median line height used as a threshold to create a new paragraph when using the Tokenizer in `line_distance` mode. The default value is 0.8, which is used as a coefficient when calculating median vertical character size for Page. If you find that the Tokenizer is not creating new paragraphs when it should, you can try **lowering** this value. Alternatively, if the Tokenizer is creating too many paragraphs, you can try **increasing** this value.

- `height`: (Float) This optional parameter allows you to define a specific line height threshold for creating new paragraphs. If set to None, the Tokenizer uses an intelligently calculated height threshold.

Using the `ParagraphTokenizer` in `line_distance` mode boils down to creating a `ParagraphTokenizer` instance and use it do tokenize a Document. 

Let's import the needed modules and initialize the Project and the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import ParagraphTokenizer

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
```

Initialize the `ParagraphTokenizer` and tokenize the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
tokenizer = ParagraphTokenizer(mode='line_distance')
document = tokenizer(document)
```

Then, we fetch the image representing the first page of the Document to visualize the Annotations generated by the tokenizer. Set `display_all=True` to show NO_LABEL Annotations.

```python
document.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

Due to the complexity of the Document we processed, the `line_distance` approach does not perform very well. We can see that a simpler Document that has a more linear structure gives better results:

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project, Document
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import ParagraphTokenizer
from copy import deepcopy

my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)

sample_doc = Document.from_file("sample.pdf", project=my_project, sync=True)
deepcopied_doc = deepcopy(sample_doc)
tokenizer = ParagraphTokenizer(mode='line_distance')

tokenized_doc = tokenizer(deepcopied_doc)
```

```python tags=["remove-cell"]
tokenized_doc.pages()[0].image_width = 1100
tokenized_doc.pages()[0].image_height = 1400
```

```python
tokenized_doc.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

```python tags=["remove-cell"]
sample_doc.delete(delete_online=True)
```

Note that this example uses a PDF file named 'sample.pdf', you can download this file <a href="sample.pdf">here</a> in case you wish to try running this code.


#### Detectron (CV) Approach
With the Computer Vision (CV) approach, we can create Labels, identify figures, tables, lists, texts, and titles, thereby giving us a comprehensive understanding of the Document's structure.

Using the Computer Vision approach might require more processing power and might be slower compared to the `line_distance` approach, but the significant leap in the comprehensiveness of the output makes it a powerful tool.

##### Parameters
- `create_detectron_labels`: (Boolean, default: False) if set to True, Labels will be created and assigned to the Document. Labels may include `figure`, `table`, `list`, `text` and `title`. If this option is set to False, the Tokenizer will create `NO_LABEL` Annotations.


Using a Tokenizer in `detectron` mode boils down to passing `detectron` ot the `mode` argument of the `ParagraphTokenizer`. 

Make necessary imports, initialize the Project and the Document.

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import ParagraphTokenizer

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
document = project.get_document_by_id(TEST_DOCUMENT_ID)
```

Initialize the tokenizer and tokenize the Document.
```python
tokenizer = ParagraphTokenizer(mode='detectron', create_detectron_labels=True)

tokenized = tokenizer(document)
```

```python
tokenized.get_page_by_index(0).get_annotations_image()
```

Comparing this result to tokenizing the same Document with the `line_distance` approach it is evident that the `detectron` mode can extract a meaningful structure from a relatively complex Document.


### Sentence Tokenization

The `SentenceTokenizer` is a specialized [tokenizer](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#sentence-tokenizer) designed to split text into sentences. Similarly to the ParagraphTokenizer, it has two modes of operation: `detectron` and `line_distance`, and accepts the same additional parameters: `line_height_ratio`, `height` and `create_detectron_labels`.

To use it, import the necessary modules, initialize the Project, the Document, and the Tokenizer and tokenize the Document.
```python tags=["remove-cell"]
YOUR_DOCUMENT_ID = 5679477
```

```python tags=["remove-output"]
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.paragraph_and_sentence import SentenceTokenizer
from copy import deepcopy

project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID, update=True)

doc = project.get_document_by_id(YOUR_DOCUMENT_ID)

tokenizer = SentenceTokenizer(mode='detectron')

tokenized = tokenizer(doc)
```

Visualize the output:
```python
tokenized.get_page_by_index(1).get_annotations_image(display_all=True)
```

### Choosing the right tokenizer

When it comes to natural language processing (NLP), choosing the correct tokenizer can make a significant impact on your system's performance and accuracy. The Konfuzio SDK offers several tokenization options, each suited to different tasks:

- **WhitespaceTokenizer**: Perfect for basic word-level processing. This tokenizer breaks text into chunks separated by whitespaces, tabs and newlines. It is ideal for straightforward tasks such as basic keyword extraction.

- **Label-Specific RegexTokenizer**: Known as character detection mode on the Konfuzio server, this tokenizer offers more specialized functionality. It uses Annotations of a Label within a training set to pinpoint and tokenize precise chunks of text. It is especially effective for tasks like entity recognition, where accuracy is paramount. By recognizing specific word or character patterns, it allows for more precise and nuanced data processing.

- **ParagraphTokenizer**: Identifies and separates larger text chunks - paragraphs. This is beneficial when your text’s interpretation relies heavily on the context at the paragraph level.

- **SentenceTokenizer**: Segments text into sentences. This is useful when the meaning of your text depends on the context provided at the sentence level.

Choosing the right Tokenizer is a matter of understanding your NLP task, the structure of your data, and the degree of detail your processing requires. By aligning these elements with the functionalities provided by the different tokenizers in the Konfuzio SDK, you can select the best tool for your task.


### Verify that a tokenizer finds all Labels

To help you choose the right tokenizer for your task, it can be useful to try out different tokenizers and see which Spans are found by which tokenizer. The `Label` class provides a method called `spans_not_found_by_tokenizer` that can he helpful in this regard.

Here is an example of how to use the `Label.spans_not_found_by_tokenizer` method. This will allow you to determine if a RegexTokenizer is suitable at finding the Spans of a Label, or what Spans might have been annotated wrong. Say, you have a number of Annotations assigned to the `Austellungsdatum` Label and want to know which Spans would not be found when using the WhitespaceTokenizer. You can follow this example to find all the relevant Spans.

```python
from konfuzio_sdk.data import Project
from konfuzio_sdk.tokenizer.regex import WhitespaceTokenizer

my_project = Project(id_=TEST_PROJECT_ID)
category = my_project.categories[0]

tokenizer = WhitespaceTokenizer()

label = my_project.get_label_by_name('Austellungsdatum')

spans_not_found = label.spans_not_found_by_tokenizer(tokenizer, categories=[category])

for span in spans_not_found:
    print(f"{span}: {span.offset_string}")
```

### Conclusion
In this tutorial, we have walked through the essentials of tokenization. We have shown how the Konfuzio SDK can be configured to use different strategies to chunk your input text into tokens, before it is further processed to extract data from it.

We have seen the `WhitespaceTokenizer`, splitting text into chunks delimeted by white spaces. We have seen the more complex `RogexTokenizer`, which can be configured to use regular expressions to define delimiters matching any arbitrary regular expression. Furthermore, we have shown how regular expressions can be automatically found to be then used by the `RegexTokenizer`. We have also seen the `Paragraph`- and `SentenceTokenizer`, delimiting text according paragraphs and sentences respectively, and their different modes of use: `line_distance` for simpler Documents, and `detectron` for Documents with a more complex structure.


### What's Next?

- <a href="/sdk/tutorials/information_extraction"> Find out how to train a custom Extraction AI model</a>
