notebooks/README.md, before:

## Notebooks

- [Train a Konfuzio SDK Model to Extract Information From Payslip Documents](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/tutorials/tutorials.html#train-a-konfuzio-sdk-model-to-extract-information-from-payslip-documents) [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/document-ai-python-sdk/blob/master/docs/sdk/tutorials/RFExtractionAI%20Demo.ipynb):
  An example of how Konfuzio SDK package can be used in a pipeline to have an easy feedback workflow can be seen in this
  tutorial
- [Retrain Flair NER-Ontonotes-Fast with Human Revised Annotations](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/tutorials/tutorials.html#retrain-flair-ner-ontonotes-fast-with-human-revised-annotations) [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/document-ai-python-sdk/blob/master/docs/sdk/tutorials/human_in_the_loop.ipynb):
  An example of how Konfuzio SDK package can be used in a pipeline to have an easy feedback workflow can be seen in this
  tutorial
- [Count Relevant Expressions in Annual Reports](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/tutorials/tutorials.html#count-relevant-expressions-in-annual-reports) [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/document-ai-python-sdk/blob/master/docs/sdk/tutorials/word_count.ipynb):
  An example of how to retrieve structured and organized information from documents.

Commit message:

Added: quick start notebook and installation link to tutorials (#474)
* Added: quick start notebook

* Changed: notebook description

* Added: installation link and quick start notebook

* Changed: installation link

* Changed: installation link

* Changed: installation link

* Changed: notebooks readme

notebooks/README.md, after:

# Notebooks 📒

Here you can find some notebooks, which showcase the usage of **[Konfuzio SDK](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/index.html)** as well as some notebooks which we provide to get started quickly. 🚀

### Installation Guide 💿

For the installation and usage within Colab, you can follow the "Getting started" notebook here. \
<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/konfuzio-sdk/blob/master/notebooks/Get_started_with_the_Konfuzio_SDK.ipynb" target="_parent"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>

### Tutorials 🧑‍💻

A complete list of tutorials can be found in our documentation under the [**tutorial section**](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/tutorials.html). \
Here is an example tutorial with an accompanying notebook:

[Train a Konfuzio SDK Model to Extract Information From Payslip Documents](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/tutorials/information_extraction/index.html) \
  An example of how Konfuzio SDK package can be used in a pipeline to have an easy feedback workflow can be seen in this
  tutorial.  [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/konfuzio-sdk/blob/master/notebooks/RFExtractionAI%20Demo.ipynb)

### Template 📄

For getting up and running quickly, you can use our "Colab Quick Start" notebook. This can also serve as a template for your next project or test you want to kickstart within Google Colab.  \
<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/konfuzio-ai/konfuzio-sdk/blob/master/notebooks/Quick_start_template_for_Konfuzio_SDK.ipynb" target="_parent"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
