docs/web/explanations.md, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Use this section for explaining how the software works, without completing a specific task (see Tutorials).

# Explanations

*Explanation is discussion that clarifies and illuminates a particular topic.*
*Explanation is understanding-oriented.*

## Architectural Overview

The diagram illustrates the components of a Konfuzio Server deployment. Optional components are represented by dashed lines. The numbers in brackets represent the minimal and maximal container count per component.

.. mermaid::

   graph TD
      classDef client fill:#D5E8D4,stroke:#82B366,color:#000000;
      classDef old_optional fill:#E1D5E7,stroke:#9673A6,color:#000000;
      classDef optional fill:#DAE8FC,stroke:#6C8EBF,color:#000000,stroke-dasharray: 3 3;
      
      ip("Loadbalancer / Public IP")
      smtp("SMTP Mailbox")
      a("Database")
      b("Task Queue")
      c("File Storage")
      worker("Generic Worker (1:n)")
      web("Web & API (1:n)")
      beats("Beats Worker (1:n)")
      mail("Mail-Scan (0:1)")
      
      %% Outside references
      smtp <-- Poll emails --> mail
      ip <--> web
      
      %% Optional Containers
      ocr("OCR (0:n)")
      segmentation("Segmentation (0:n)")
      summarization("Summarization (0:n)")
      flower("Flower (0:1)")
      
      %% Server / Cluster
      h0("Server 1")
      h1("Server 2")
      h2("Server 3")
      h3("Server 4")
      h4("Server 5")
      i("...")
      j("Server with GPU")

      subgraph all["Private Network"]
      subgraph databases["Persistent Container / Services"]
      a
      c
      b
      end
      subgraph containers["Stateless Containers"]
      mail
      web
      flower
      worker
      beats
      subgraph optional["Optional Containers"]
      ocr
      segmentation
      summarization
      end
      end
      subgraph servers["Server / Cluster"]
      h0
      h1
      h2
      h3
      h4
      i
      j
      end    
      worker <--> databases
      worker -- Can delegate tasks--> optional
      worker -- "Can process tasks"--> worker
      web <--> databases
      web <--> flower
      flower <--> b
      mail <--> databases
      beats <--> databases
      containers -- "Operated on"--> servers
      databases -- "Can be operated on"--> servers
      end
      
      click flower "/web/on_premises.html#optional-6-use-flower-to-monitor-tasks"
      click web "/web/on_premises.html#start-the-container"
      click worker "/web/on_premises.html#start-the-container"
      click ocr "/web/on_premises.html#optional-7-use-azure-read-api-on-premise"
      click segmentation "/web/on_premises.html#optional-8-install-document-segmentation-container"
      click summarization "/web/on_premises.html#optional-9-install-document-summarization-container" 
      
      class flower optional
      class ocr optional
      class mail optional
      class ocr optional
      class segmentation optional
      class summarization optional
      class h1 optional
      class h2 optional
      class h3 optional
      class h4 optional
      class i optional
      class j optional



## OCR Processing

After [uploading a document](https://help.konfuzio.com/modules/documents/index.html#upload-new-documents), depending on
how your project was set up, the document is automatically queued and processed by our OCR. In the below breakdown we
try to demystify this process, and give you some insight into all the steps which happen during OCR processing.

### Project settings

We first look at the projects settings to see what base settings have been set up for your documents.

1. **Chosen OCR engine**
    1. easy
    2. precise

2. **Chosen processing type**
    1. OCR
    2. Embedding
    3. Embedding and OCR

3. **Chosen auto-rotation option**

   (Only available for precise OCR engine)

    1. None
    2. Rounded
    3. Exact

### File pre-processing

During file upload, after the Project settings have been evaluated, we look at the file:

1. We check if the filetype is [supported](https://dev.konfuzio.com/web/api-v3.html#supported-file-types).
2. We check if the file is valid and/or corrupted.
3. If the file is corrupted, some repairing is attempted.
4. We check if the filetype provides embeddings.
5. We check if the project enforces OCR.
6. We then conduct OCR on the file.
7. We check if the image is angled.
8. We create thumbnails per page.
9. We create images per page.


### OCR Text extraction

During evaluation of both project settings and file, we also process OCR extraction

1. We use the chosen engine on the pre-processed file.
    1. If "Embedding and OCR" is chosen, internally we check which processing type is the most suitable, and use either
       Embedding or OCR
    2. Depending on chosen processing type, some pre-processing may be done:
        1. Convert non-PDF Documents to a [PDF](https://dev.konfuzio.com/web/api.html#pdfs) 
           that is being used here
        2. Convert PDF to text (in case of embeddings)
    3. If some sort of PDF corruption is detected, within our ability we attempt to repair the PDF
    4. If the PDF or TIFF is multi page (and valid) we split the document in pages and process each page separately
2. We check whether auto-rotation was chosen when the precise OCR engine is used]
    1. If rounded angle correction was chosen, we rotate the image to the nearest 45/90 degrees.
    2. If exact angle rotation was chosen, we rotate the image at its exact angle rotation value.
3. We attempt to extract the text from (either ocr, embedded or both)
    1. OCR may fail because text on the document is technically unreadable, the file is corrupted or empty and cannot be
       repaired
    2. OCR may fail because engine does not support the text language

Finally, we return you the extracted text.

## Background Processes

Processes within our server are distributed between
[Celery](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/) [workers](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/workers.html)
between several [tasks](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/tasks.html). Together this creates the definition 
of Servers internal workflow. Below the individual tasks of the Server's workflow are described in order of their 
triggered events. Tasks are run in parallel queue's which are grouped in celery chords. While some tasks in each queue 
run in parallel, some tasks are still dependent on others. And no next queue will start until all tasks in the queue are finished. 
More on Celery workflows can be found here: https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/canvas.html

### Queue's


| id  | queue-name       |                   description                   |
|-----|------------------|:-----------------------------------------------:|
| 1   | `ocr`            |             ocr and post ocr tasks              |
| 2   | `processing`     |               non dependent tasks               |
| 3   | `categorize`     |              categorization tasks               |
| 4   | `extract`        |              extraction after ocr               |
| 5   | `finalize`       | end queue after OCR and extraction has occurred |
| 6   | `training`       |              queue for AI training              |
| 7   | `training_heavy` |       queue for RAM intensive ai training       |
| 8   | `evaluation`     |             queue for AI evaluation             |

### Reset the Queue

On self-hosted Konfuzio installations, all queues can be reset by running `redis-cli FLUSHALL`.
Please be aware that you usually do not want to do this, as it will cause Documents and AIs to be stuck in their current status.

### Celery Tasks

#### Document tasks

Series of events & tasks triggered when uploading a Document

| Queue | task id | task name                    | description                                                                                                     | default time limit |
|-------|---------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 1, 2  | 1       | page_ocr                     | Apply OCR to the documents page(s).                                                                             | 10 minutes         |
| 1, 2  | 2       | page_image                   | Create png image for a page. If a PNG was submitted or already exists it will be returned without regeneration. | 10 minutes         |
| 1     | 3       | set_document_text_and_bboxes | Collect the result of the pages OCR (OCR from task_id #1) and set text & bboxes.                                | 3 minute           |
| 3     | 4       | categorize                   | Categorize the document.                                                                                        | 60 minutes         |
| 4     | 5       | document_extract             | Extract the document using the AI models linked to the Project.                                                 | 60 minutes         |
| 5     | 6       | build_sandwich               | Generates the pdfsandwich for a submitted PDF                                                                   | 30 minutes         |
| 5     | 7       | generate_entities            | Generate entities for a document which are shown in the labeling tool.                                          | 60 minutes         |
| 5     | 8       | set_labeling_available       | Sets the document available for labeling                                                                        | 10 minutes         |
| 5     | 9       | get_hocr                     | Get hOCR representation for bboxes (bboxes from task_id #3).                                                    | 5 minutes          |

The overall time to complete all tasks related to a Document (DOCUMENT_WORKFLOW_TIME_LIMIT) is restricted to 2 hours.

#### Extraction & Category AI Training

##### Extraction AI

Series of events triggered when training an extraction AI

| Queue   | task id | task name           | description                                                                                                     | default time limit |
|---------|---------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 2       | 1       | page_image          | Create png image for a page. If a PNG was submitted or already exists it will be returned without regeneration. | 10 minutes         |
| 6, 7    | 1       | train_extraction_ai | Start the training of the Ai model.                                                                             | 20 hours           |
| 4       | 2       | document_extract    | Extract the document using the AI models linked to the Project.                                                 | 60 minutes         |
| 6, 7, 8 | 3       | evaluate_ai_model   | Evaluate the trained Ai models performance.                                                                     | 60 minutes         |

##### Category AI

Series of events triggered when training a Categorization AI

| Queue      | task id | task name         | description                                                                                                     | default time limit |
|------------|---------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 8          | 2       | train_category_ai | Start the training of the categorization model.                                                                 | 20 hours           |
| 8, 3       | 3       | categorize        | Run the categorization against all Documents in the its category.                                               | 60 minutes         |
| 6, 7, 8, 3 | 4       | evaluate_ai_model | Evaluate the categorization Ai models performance.                                                              | 60 minutes           | 


## Security

We prioritize the security of our software and the data it manages. 
Whether you are using our SaaS solution or deploying our software on-premise, we have implemented a range of security measures to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of your data. 

Below are some of the key security features and best practices we have integrated:

### Non-Root Containers

Running containers as a non-root user is a best practice in container security. 
By default, our Docker container runs as a non-root user. 
This minimizes the potential damage that can be caused by vulnerabilities or malicious attacks, as the container processes will have limited permissions on the host system.

### Read-Only Filesystem

Our Docker container is configured with a read-only filesystem. This means that once the container is up and running, 
no new files can be written to the filesystem, and existing files cannot be modified. 
This significantly reduces the risk of malicious modifications to the software or its configuration. 
If there is a need to modify configurations or add files, it should be done before the container starts or by using Docker volumes.

### Image Scanning with Grype 

[Grype](https://github.com/anchore/grype) is a vulnerability scanner for container images and filesystems. We have integrated Grype to regularly scan our Docker images for known vulnerabilities. 
This ensures that our software is always up-to-date with the latest security patches. Please [contact us](konfuzio.com/support) in case you interested in our Grype Configuration ([Internal Link](https://git.konfuzio.com/konfuzio/konfuziocontainer/-/blob/master/.grype.yaml)).


### Separated Environments
To ensure the stability, security, and quality of our software, we maintain distinct environments for different stages of our software development life cycle:

- Development Environment: 
This is where our software is initially built and tested by developers. It is isolated from production data and systems to prevent unintended disruptions or exposures of confidential data.
- Testing Environment: 
After initial development, changes are moved to our testing environment. This environment is dedicated to rigorous testing procedures, including automated tests, integration tests, and security assessments, ensuring that the software meets our quality and security standards.
- Staging Environment: 
Before deploying updates to our production environment, changes are first deployed to our staging environment. This allows us to test new features and patches in a controlled setting that closely mirrors our production environment.
- Production Environment:
This is the live environment where our software serves real users. We ensure that only thoroughly tested and vetted code reaches this stage.

### Reporting Security Concerns

If you discover a potential security issue or vulnerability in our software, please contact us immediately at konfuzio.com/support. We take all reports seriously and will investigate promptly.

Commit message:

Added: Note about increasing soft time limits when encountering error (#387)
* initial commit

* initial commit

docs/web/explanations.md, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Use this section for explaining how the software works, without completing a specific task (see Tutorials).

# Explanations

*Explanation is discussion that clarifies and illuminates a particular topic.*
*Explanation is understanding-oriented.*

## Architectural Overview

The diagram illustrates the components of a Konfuzio Server deployment. Optional components are represented by dashed lines. The numbers in brackets represent the minimal and maximal container count per component.

.. mermaid::

   graph TD
      classDef client fill:#D5E8D4,stroke:#82B366,color:#000000;
      classDef old_optional fill:#E1D5E7,stroke:#9673A6,color:#000000;
      classDef optional fill:#DAE8FC,stroke:#6C8EBF,color:#000000,stroke-dasharray: 3 3;
      
      ip("Loadbalancer / Public IP")
      smtp("SMTP Mailbox")
      a("Database")
      b("Task Queue")
      c("File Storage")
      worker("Generic Worker (1:n)")
      web("Web & API (1:n)")
      beats("Beats Worker (1:n)")
      mail("Mail-Scan (0:1)")
      
      %% Outside references
      smtp <-- Poll emails --> mail
      ip <--> web
      
      %% Optional Containers
      ocr("OCR (0:n)")
      segmentation("Segmentation (0:n)")
      summarization("Summarization (0:n)")
      flower("Flower (0:1)")
      
      %% Server / Cluster
      h0("Server 1")
      h1("Server 2")
      h2("Server 3")
      h3("Server 4")
      h4("Server 5")
      i("...")
      j("Server with GPU")

      subgraph all["Private Network"]
      subgraph databases["Persistent Container / Services"]
      a
      c
      b
      end
      subgraph containers["Stateless Containers"]
      mail
      web
      flower
      worker
      beats
      subgraph optional["Optional Containers"]
      ocr
      segmentation
      summarization
      end
      end
      subgraph servers["Server / Cluster"]
      h0
      h1
      h2
      h3
      h4
      i
      j
      end    
      worker <--> databases
      worker -- Can delegate tasks--> optional
      worker -- "Can process tasks"--> worker
      web <--> databases
      web <--> flower
      flower <--> b
      mail <--> databases
      beats <--> databases
      containers -- "Operated on"--> servers
      databases -- "Can be operated on"--> servers
      end
      
      click flower "/web/on_premises.html#optional-6-use-flower-to-monitor-tasks"
      click web "/web/on_premises.html#start-the-container"
      click worker "/web/on_premises.html#start-the-container"
      click ocr "/web/on_premises.html#optional-7-use-azure-read-api-on-premise"
      click segmentation "/web/on_premises.html#optional-8-install-document-segmentation-container"
      click summarization "/web/on_premises.html#optional-9-install-document-summarization-container" 
      
      class flower optional
      class ocr optional
      class mail optional
      class ocr optional
      class segmentation optional
      class summarization optional
      class h1 optional
      class h2 optional
      class h3 optional
      class h4 optional
      class i optional
      class j optional



## OCR Processing

After [uploading a document](https://help.konfuzio.com/modules/documents/index.html#upload-new-documents), depending on
how your project was set up, the document is automatically queued and processed by our OCR. In the below breakdown we
try to demystify this process, and give you some insight into all the steps which happen during OCR processing.

### Project settings

We first look at the projects settings to see what base settings have been set up for your documents.

1. **Chosen OCR engine**
    1. easy
    2. precise

2. **Chosen processing type**
    1. OCR
    2. Embedding
    3. Embedding and OCR

3. **Chosen auto-rotation option**

   (Only available for precise OCR engine)

    1. None
    2. Rounded
    3. Exact

### File pre-processing

During file upload, after the Project settings have been evaluated, we look at the file:

1. We check if the filetype is [supported](https://dev.konfuzio.com/web/api-v3.html#supported-file-types).
2. We check if the file is valid and/or corrupted.
3. If the file is corrupted, some repairing is attempted.
4. We check if the filetype provides embeddings.
5. We check if the project enforces OCR.
6. We then conduct OCR on the file.
7. We check if the image is angled.
8. We create thumbnails per page.
9. We create images per page.


### OCR Text extraction

During evaluation of both project settings and file, we also process OCR extraction

1. We use the chosen engine on the pre-processed file.
    1. If "Embedding and OCR" is chosen, internally we check which processing type is the most suitable, and use either
       Embedding or OCR
    2. Depending on chosen processing type, some pre-processing may be done:
        1. Convert non-PDF Documents to a [PDF](https://dev.konfuzio.com/web/api.html#pdfs) 
           that is being used here
        2. Convert PDF to text (in case of embeddings)
    3. If some sort of PDF corruption is detected, within our ability we attempt to repair the PDF
    4. If the PDF or TIFF is multi page (and valid) we split the document in pages and process each page separately
2. We check whether auto-rotation was chosen when the precise OCR engine is used]
    1. If rounded angle correction was chosen, we rotate the image to the nearest 45/90 degrees.
    2. If exact angle rotation was chosen, we rotate the image at its exact angle rotation value.
3. We attempt to extract the text from (either ocr, embedded or both)
    1. OCR may fail because text on the document is technically unreadable, the file is corrupted or empty and cannot be
       repaired
    2. OCR may fail because engine does not support the text language

Finally, we return you the extracted text.

## Background Processes

Processes within our server are distributed between
[Celery](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/) [workers](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/workers.html)
between several [tasks](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/tasks.html). Together this creates the definition 
of Servers internal workflow. Below the individual tasks of the Server's workflow are described in order of their 
triggered events. Tasks are run in parallel queue's which are grouped in celery chords. While some tasks in each queue 
run in parallel, some tasks are still dependent on others. And no next queue will start until all tasks in the queue are finished. 
More on Celery workflows can be found here: https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/canvas.html

### Queues


| id  | queue-name       |                   description                   |
|-----|------------------|:-----------------------------------------------:|
| 1   | `ocr`            |             ocr and post ocr tasks              |
| 2   | `processing`     |               non dependent tasks               |
| 3   | `categorize`     |              categorization tasks               |
| 4   | `extract`        |              extraction after ocr               |
| 5   | `finalize`       | end queue after OCR and extraction has occurred |
| 6   | `training`       |              queue for AI training              |
| 7   | `training_heavy` |       queue for RAM intensive ai training       |
| 8   | `evaluation`     |             queue for AI evaluation             |

Note that all soft time limits are set relatively low and may be unsuitable for processing larger Document collections 
with hundreds of files. If you encounter errors about exceeded soft time limits, you can refer to the numbers in 
[Time limits for background tasks](https://dev.konfuzio.com/web/on_premises.html#categorization-time-limit) and increase
them.

### Reset the Queue

On self-hosted Konfuzio installations, all queues can be reset by running `redis-cli FLUSHALL`.
Please be aware that you usually do not want to do this, as it will cause Documents and AIs to be stuck in their current status.

### Celery Tasks

#### Document tasks

Series of events & tasks triggered when uploading a Document

| Queue | task id | task name                    | description                                                                                                     | default time limit |
|-------|---------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 1, 2  | 1       | page_ocr                     | Apply OCR to the documents page(s).                                                                             | 10 minutes         |
| 1, 2  | 2       | page_image                   | Create png image for a page. If a PNG was submitted or already exists it will be returned without regeneration. | 10 minutes         |
| 1     | 3       | set_document_text_and_bboxes | Collect the result of the pages OCR (OCR from task_id #1) and set text & bboxes.                                | 3 minute           |
| 3     | 4       | categorize                   | Categorize the document.                                                                                        | 60 minutes         |
| 4     | 5       | document_extract             | Extract the document using the AI models linked to the Project.                                                 | 60 minutes         |
| 5     | 6       | build_sandwich               | Generates the pdfsandwich for a submitted PDF                                                                   | 30 minutes         |
| 5     | 7       | generate_entities            | Generate entities for a document which are shown in the labeling tool.                                          | 60 minutes         |
| 5     | 8       | set_labeling_available       | Sets the document available for labeling                                                                        | 10 minutes         |
| 5     | 9       | get_hocr                     | Get hOCR representation for bboxes (bboxes from task_id #3).                                                    | 5 minutes          |

The overall time to complete all tasks related to a Document (DOCUMENT_WORKFLOW_TIME_LIMIT) is restricted to 2 hours.

#### Extraction & Category AI Training

##### Extraction AI

Series of events triggered when training an extraction AI

| Queue   | task id | task name           | description                                                                                                     | default time limit |
|---------|---------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 2       | 1       | page_image          | Create png image for a page. If a PNG was submitted or already exists it will be returned without regeneration. | 10 minutes         |
| 6, 7    | 1       | train_extraction_ai | Start the training of the Ai model.                                                                             | 20 hours           |
| 4       | 2       | document_extract    | Extract the document using the AI models linked to the Project.                                                 | 60 minutes         |
| 6, 7, 8 | 3       | evaluate_ai_model   | Evaluate the trained Ai models performance.                                                                     | 60 minutes         |

##### Category AI

Series of events triggered when training a Categorization AI

| Queue      | task id | task name         | description                                                                                                     | default time limit |
|------------|---------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 8          | 2       | train_category_ai | Start the training of the categorization model.                                                                 | 20 hours           |
| 8, 3       | 3       | categorize        | Run the categorization against all Documents in the its category.                                               | 60 minutes         |
| 6, 7, 8, 3 | 4       | evaluate_ai_model | Evaluate the categorization Ai models performance.                                                              | 60 minutes           | 


## Security

We prioritize the security of our software and the data it manages. 
Whether you are using our SaaS solution or deploying our software on-premise, we have implemented a range of security measures to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of your data. 

Below are some of the key security features and best practices we have integrated:

### Non-Root Containers

Running containers as a non-root user is a best practice in container security. 
By default, our Docker container runs as a non-root user. 
This minimizes the potential damage that can be caused by vulnerabilities or malicious attacks, as the container processes will have limited permissions on the host system.

### Read-Only Filesystem

Our Docker container is configured with a read-only filesystem. This means that once the container is up and running, 
no new files can be written to the filesystem, and existing files cannot be modified. 
This significantly reduces the risk of malicious modifications to the software or its configuration. 
If there is a need to modify configurations or add files, it should be done before the container starts or by using Docker volumes.

### Image Scanning with Grype 

[Grype](https://github.com/anchore/grype) is a vulnerability scanner for container images and filesystems. We have integrated Grype to regularly scan our Docker images for known vulnerabilities. 
This ensures that our software is always up-to-date with the latest security patches. Please [contact us](konfuzio.com/support) in case you interested in our Grype Configuration ([Internal Link](https://git.konfuzio.com/konfuzio/konfuziocontainer/-/blob/master/.grype.yaml)).


### Separated Environments
To ensure the stability, security, and quality of our software, we maintain distinct environments for different stages of our software development life cycle:

- Development Environment: 
This is where our software is initially built and tested by developers. It is isolated from production data and systems to prevent unintended disruptions or exposures of confidential data.
- Testing Environment: 
After initial development, changes are moved to our testing environment. This environment is dedicated to rigorous testing procedures, including automated tests, integration tests, and security assessments, ensuring that the software meets our quality and security standards.
- Staging Environment: 
Before deploying updates to our production environment, changes are first deployed to our staging environment. This allows us to test new features and patches in a controlled setting that closely mirrors our production environment.
- Production Environment:
This is the live environment where our software serves real users. We ensure that only thoroughly tested and vetted code reaches this stage.

### Reporting Security Concerns

If you discover a potential security issue or vulnerability in our software, please contact us immediately at konfuzio.com/support. We take all reports seriously and will investigate promptly.
