docs/sdk/tutorials/index.md, before:

## Example Usage

Make sure to set up your Project (so that you can retrieve the Project ID) using our [Konfuzio Guide](https://help.konfuzio.com/tutorials/quickstart/index.html).

### Project

Retrieve all information available for your Project:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start project
   :end-before: end project
   :dedent: 4

The information will be stored in the folder that you defined to allocate the data in the package initialization.
A subfolder will be created for each Document in the Project.

Every time that there are changes in the Project in the Konfuzio Server, the local Project can be updated this way:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get
   :end-before: end get
   :dedent: 4

To make sure that your Project is loaded with all the latest data:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start update
   :end-before: end update
   :dedent: 4

### Documents

To access the Documents in the Project you can use:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start documents
   :end-before: end documents
   :dedent: 4


By default, it will get the Documents with training status (dataset_status = 2). The code for the status is:

- None: 0
- Preparation: 1
- Training: 2
- Test: 3
- Excluded: 4

The Test Documents can be accessed directly by:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start test_documents
   :end-before: end test_documents
   :dedent: 4

For more details, you can check out the [Project documentation](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#project).


By default, you get 4 files for each Document that contain information of the text, pages, annotation sets and 
annotations. You can see these files inside the Document folder.

**document.txt** - Contains the text of the Document. If OCR was used, it will correspond to the result from the OCR.

```
                                                            x02   328927/10103/00104
Abrechnung  der Brutto/Netto-Bezüge   für Dezember 2018                   22.05.2018 Bat:  1

Personal-Nr.  Geburtsdatum ski Faktor  Ki,Frbtr.Konfession  ‚Freibetragjährl.! |Freibetrag mt! |DBA  iGleitzone  'St.-Tg.  VJuUr. üb. |Url. Anspr. Url.Tg.gen.  |Resturlaub
00104 150356 1  |     ‚ev                              30     400  3000       3400

SV-Nummer       |Krankenkasse                       KK%®|PGRS Bars  jum.SV-Tg. Anw. Tage |UrlaubTage Krankh. Tg. Fehlz. Tage

50150356B581 AOK  Bayern Die Gesundheitskas 157 101 1111 1 30

                                             Eintritt   ‚Austritt     Anw.Std.  Urlaub Std.  |Krankh. Std. |Fehlz. Std.

                                             170299  L L       l     L     l     l
 -                                       +  Steuer-ID       IMrB?       Zeitlohn Sta.|Überstd.  |Bez. Sta.
  Teststraße123
   12345 Testort                                   12345678911       \     ı     ı     \
                               B/N
               Pers.-Nr.  00104        x02
               Abt.-Nr. A12         10103          HinweisezurAbrechnung
```

**pages.json5** - Contains information of each Page of the Document (for example, their ids and sizes).

```
[
  {
    "id": 1923,
    "image": "/page/show/1923/",
    "number": 1,
    "original_size": [
      595.2,
      841.68
    ],
    "size": [
      1414,
      2000
    ]
  }
]
```

**annotation_sets.json5** - Contains information of each section in the Document (for example, their ids and Label Sets).

```
[
  {
    "id": 78730,
    "position": 1,
    "section_label": 63
  },
  {
    "id": 292092,
    "position": 1,
    "section_label": 64
  }
]
```

**annotations.json5** - Contains information of each Annotation in the Document (for example, their Labels and Bounding 
Boxes).

```
[
  {
    "accuracy": null,
    "bbox": {
      "bottom": 44.369,
      "line_index": 1,
      "page_index": 0,
      "top": 35.369,
      "x0": 468.48,
      "x1": 527.04,
      "y0": 797.311,
      "y1": 806.311
    },
    "bboxes": [
      {
        "bottom": 44.369,
        "end_offset": 169,
        "line_number": 2,
        "offset_string": "22.05.2018",
        "offset_string_original": "22.05.2018",
        "page_index": 0,
        "start_offset": 159,
        "top": 35.369,
        "x0": 468.48,
        "x1": 527.04,
        "y0": 797.311,
        "y1": 806.311
      }
    ],
    "created_by": 59,
    "custom_offset_string": false,
    "end_offset": 169,
    "get_created_by": "user@konfuzio.com",
    "get_revised_by": "n/a",
    "id": 4419937,
    "is_correct": true,
    "label": 867,
    "label_data_type": "Date",
    "label_text": "Austellungsdatum",
    "label_threshold": 0.1,--
    "normalized": "2018-05-22",
    "offset_string": "22.05.2018",
    "offset_string_original": "22.05.2018",
    "revised": false,
    "revised_by": null,
    "section": 78730,
    "section_label_id": 63,
    "section_label_text": "Lohnabrechnung",
    "selection_bbox": {
      "bottom": 44.369,
      "line_index": 1,
      "page_index": 0,
      "top": 35.369,
      "x0": 468.48,
      "x1": 527.04,
      "y0": 797.311,
      "y1": 806.311
    },
    "start_offset": 159,
    "translated_string": null
  },
...
]
```

.. _upload-document:

#### Upload Document

Before you can upload a new file to your Project using the Konfuzio SDK, you must have completed the following steps:

1. Register for a Konfuzio account
2. Create a Project on Konfuzio
3. Install the Konfuzio SDK

For detailed instructions on these preliminary steps, refer above to the [Get Started guide](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/get_started.html#get-started).

After completing the above steps, you can proceed with uploading a new file to your Project using the Konfuzio SDK. The 
files must be of types specified in the [Supported File Types](https://help.konfuzio.com/specification/supported_file_types/index.html). 
Here, we're focusing on the `Document.from_file` method to create a [Konfuzio Document](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#document).

A Konfuzio Document is an object representing the file you upload, it will contain the OCR (Optical Character Recognition) 
information of the file once processed by Konfuzio's server.

###### Synchronous and Asynchronous Upload

You have two options for uploading your file: a synchronous method and an asynchronous method. The method is determined 
by the `sync` parameter in the `from_file` method.

1. **Synchronous upload (sync=True)**: The file is uploaded to the Konfuzio servers, and the method waits for the 
file to be processed. Once done, it returns a Document object with the OCR information. This is useful if you want 
to start working with the Document immediately after the OCR processing is completed.

   Here's an example of how to use the `from_file` method with `sync` set to `True`:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start sync_true
   :end-before: end sync_true
   :dedent: 4

2. **Asynchronous upload (sync=False)**: With this setting, the method immediately returns an empty Document object 
after initiating the upload. The OCR processing takes place in the background. This method is advantageous when 
uploading a large file or a large number of files, as it doesn't require waiting for each file's processing to complete.

   Here is how to use the asynchronous method:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start sync_false
   :end-before: end sync_false
   :dedent: 4

After asynchronous upload, you can check the status of the Document processing using the `document.update()` method on 
the returned Document object. If the Document is ready, this method will update the Document object with the OCR information.

It's important to note that if the Document is not ready, you may need to call `document.update()` again at a later time. 
This could be done manually or by setting up a looping mechanism depending on your application's workflow.

To check if the document is ready and update it with the OCR information, you can implement a custom pulling strategy 
like this:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start pulling loop
   :end-before: end pulling loop
   :dedent: 4

For a more sophisticated pulling method for asynchronously uploaded Documents using the callback function, you can 
checkout our :ref:`tutorial on how to use ngrok to receive callbacks from the Konfuzio Server<async_upload_with_callback>`.

###### Timeout Parameter

When making a server request, there's a default timeout value of 2 minutes. This means that if the server doesn't respond 
within 2 minutes, the operation will stop waiting for a response and return an error. If you're uploading a larger file, 
it might take more time to process, and the default timeout value might not be sufficient. In such a case, you can 
increase the timeout by setting the timeout parameter to a higher value.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start timeout upload
   :end-before: end timeout upload
   :dedent: 4


#### Modify Document

If you would like to use the SDK to modify some Document's meta-data like the dataset status or the assignee, you can do
it like this:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start assignee
   :end-before: end assignee
   :dedent: 4

#### Update Document
If there are changes in the Document in the Konfuzio Server, you can update your local version of the Document with:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start update_doc
   :end-before: end update_doc
   :dedent: 4

If a Document is part of the Training or Test set, you can also update it by updating the entire Project via
`project.get(update=True)`. However, for Projects with many Documents it can be faster to update only the relevant Documents.

#### Download PDFs
To get the PDFs of the Documents, you can use `get_file()`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get file
   :end-before: end get file
   :dedent: 4

This will download the OCR version of the Document which contains the text, the Bounding Boxes
information of the characters and the image of the Document.

In the Document folder, you will see a new file with the original name followed by "_ocr".

If you want to original version of the Document (without OCR) you can use `ocr_version=False`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get original
   :end-before: end get original
   :dedent: 4

In the Document folder, you will see a new file with the original name.

#### Download pages as images
To get the Pages of the Document as png images, you can use `get_images()`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get images
   :end-before: end get images
   :dedent: 4

You will get one png image named "page_number_of_page.png" for each Page in the Document.

#### Download bounding boxes of the characters
To get the Bounding Boxes information of the characters, you can use `get_bbox()`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get bbox
   :end-before: end get bbox
   :dedent: 4

You will get a file named "bbox.json5".

After downloading these files, the paths to them will also become available in the Project instance.
For example, you can get the path to the file with the Document text with:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start folder
   :end-before: end folder
   :dedent: 4

#### Delete Document

##### Delete Document Locally
To locally delete a Document, you can use:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start delete
   :end-before: end delete
   :dedent: 4

The Document will be deleted from your local data folder, but it will remain in the Konfuzio Server.
If you want to get it again you can update the Project.

##### Delete Document Online

If you would like to delete a Document in the remote server you can simply use the `Document.delete` method the `delete_online` setting set to `True`. You can only delete Documents with a dataset status of None (0). **Be careful!** Once the Document is deleted online, we will have no way of recovering it. 

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start online_delete
   :end-before: end online_delete
   :dedent: 4

If `delete_online` is set to False (the default), the Document will only be deleted on your local machine, and will be 
reloaded next time you load the Project, or if you run the `Project.init_or_update_document` method directly.

Commit message:

Added: Document status documentation (#360)
* add status documentation

* back fix

* links

docs/sdk/tutorials/index.md, after:

## Example Usage

Make sure to set up your Project (so that you can retrieve the Project ID) using our [Konfuzio Guide](https://help.konfuzio.com/tutorials/quickstart/index.html).

### Project

Retrieve all information available for your Project:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start project
   :end-before: end project
   :dedent: 4

The information will be stored in the folder that you defined to allocate the data in the package initialization.
A subfolder will be created for each Document in the Project.

Every time that there are changes in the Project in the Konfuzio Server, the local Project can be updated this way:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get
   :end-before: end get
   :dedent: 4

To make sure that your Project is loaded with all the latest data:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start update
   :end-before: end update
   :dedent: 4

### Documents

Every Document has a status indicating in what stage of processing it is. The code for the document status is:

   - Queuing for OCR: 0
   - Queuing for extraction: 1
   - Done: 2
   - Could not be processed: 111
   - OCR in progress: 10
   - Extraction in progress: 20
   - Queuing for categorization: 3
   - Categorization in progress: 30
   - Queuing for splitting: 4
   - Splitting in progress: 40
   - Waiting for splitting confirmation: 41

To access the Documents in the Project you can use:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start documents
   :end-before: end documents
   :dedent: 4

By default, it will get the Documents with training status (dataset_status = 2). The code for the dataset status is:

- None: 0
- Preparation: 1
- Training: 2
- Test: 3
- Excluded: 4

The Test Documents can be accessed directly by:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start test_documents
   :end-before: end test_documents
   :dedent: 4

For more details, you can check out the [Project documentation](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#project).


By default, you get 4 files for each Document that contain information of the text, pages, annotation sets and 
annotations. You can see these files inside the Document folder.

**document.txt** - Contains the text of the Document. If OCR was used, it will correspond to the result from the OCR.

```
                                                            x02   328927/10103/00104
Abrechnung  der Brutto/Netto-Bezüge   für Dezember 2018                   22.05.2018 Bat:  1

Personal-Nr.  Geburtsdatum ski Faktor  Ki,Frbtr.Konfession  ‚Freibetragjährl.! |Freibetrag mt! |DBA  iGleitzone  'St.-Tg.  VJuUr. üb. |Url. Anspr. Url.Tg.gen.  |Resturlaub
00104 150356 1  |     ‚ev                              30     400  3000       3400

SV-Nummer       |Krankenkasse                       KK%®|PGRS Bars  jum.SV-Tg. Anw. Tage |UrlaubTage Krankh. Tg. Fehlz. Tage

50150356B581 AOK  Bayern Die Gesundheitskas 157 101 1111 1 30

                                             Eintritt   ‚Austritt     Anw.Std.  Urlaub Std.  |Krankh. Std. |Fehlz. Std.

                                             170299  L L       l     L     l     l
 -                                       +  Steuer-ID       IMrB?       Zeitlohn Sta.|Überstd.  |Bez. Sta.
  Teststraße123
   12345 Testort                                   12345678911       \     ı     ı     \
                               B/N
               Pers.-Nr.  00104        x02
               Abt.-Nr. A12         10103          HinweisezurAbrechnung
```

**pages.json5** - Contains information of each Page of the Document (for example, their ids and sizes).

```
[
  {
    "id": 1923,
    "image": "/page/show/1923/",
    "number": 1,
    "original_size": [
      595.2,
      841.68
    ],
    "size": [
      1414,
      2000
    ]
  }
]
```

**annotation_sets.json5** - Contains information of each section in the Document (for example, their ids and Label Sets).

```
[
  {
    "id": 78730,
    "position": 1,
    "section_label": 63
  },
  {
    "id": 292092,
    "position": 1,
    "section_label": 64
  }
]
```

**annotations.json5** - Contains information of each Annotation in the Document (for example, their Labels and Bounding 
Boxes).

```
[
  {
    "accuracy": null,
    "bbox": {
      "bottom": 44.369,
      "line_index": 1,
      "page_index": 0,
      "top": 35.369,
      "x0": 468.48,
      "x1": 527.04,
      "y0": 797.311,
      "y1": 806.311
    },
    "bboxes": [
      {
        "bottom": 44.369,
        "end_offset": 169,
        "line_number": 2,
        "offset_string": "22.05.2018",
        "offset_string_original": "22.05.2018",
        "page_index": 0,
        "start_offset": 159,
        "top": 35.369,
        "x0": 468.48,
        "x1": 527.04,
        "y0": 797.311,
        "y1": 806.311
      }
    ],
    "created_by": 59,
    "custom_offset_string": false,
    "end_offset": 169,
    "get_created_by": "user@konfuzio.com",
    "get_revised_by": "n/a",
    "id": 4419937,
    "is_correct": true,
    "label": 867,
    "label_data_type": "Date",
    "label_text": "Austellungsdatum",
    "label_threshold": 0.1,--
    "normalized": "2018-05-22",
    "offset_string": "22.05.2018",
    "offset_string_original": "22.05.2018",
    "revised": false,
    "revised_by": null,
    "section": 78730,
    "section_label_id": 63,
    "section_label_text": "Lohnabrechnung",
    "selection_bbox": {
      "bottom": 44.369,
      "line_index": 1,
      "page_index": 0,
      "top": 35.369,
      "x0": 468.48,
      "x1": 527.04,
      "y0": 797.311,
      "y1": 806.311
    },
    "start_offset": 159,
    "translated_string": null
  },
...
]
```

.. _upload-document:

#### Upload Document

Before you can upload a new file to your Project using the Konfuzio SDK, you must have completed the following steps:

1. Register for a Konfuzio account
2. Create a Project on Konfuzio
3. Install the Konfuzio SDK

For detailed instructions on these preliminary steps, refer above to the [Get Started guide](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/get_started.html#get-started).

After completing the above steps, you can proceed with uploading a new file to your Project using the Konfuzio SDK. The 
files must be of types specified in the [Supported File Types](https://help.konfuzio.com/specification/supported_file_types/index.html). 
Here, we're focusing on the `Document.from_file` method to create a [Konfuzio Document](https://dev.konfuzio.com/sdk/sourcecode.html#document).

A Konfuzio Document is an object representing the file you upload, it will contain the OCR (Optical Character Recognition) 
information of the file once processed by Konfuzio's server.

###### Synchronous and Asynchronous Upload

You have two options for uploading your file: a synchronous method and an asynchronous method. The method is determined 
by the `sync` parameter in the `from_file` method.

1. **Synchronous upload (sync=True)**: The file is uploaded to the Konfuzio servers, and the method waits for the 
file to be processed. Once done, it returns a Document object with the OCR information. This is useful if you want 
to start working with the Document immediately after the OCR processing is completed.

   Here's an example of how to use the `from_file` method with `sync` set to `True`:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start sync_true
   :end-before: end sync_true
   :dedent: 4

2. **Asynchronous upload (sync=False)**: With this setting, the method immediately returns an empty Document object 
after initiating the upload. The OCR processing takes place in the background. This method is advantageous when 
uploading a large file or a large number of files, as it doesn't require waiting for each file's processing to complete.

   Here is how to use the asynchronous method:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start sync_false
   :end-before: end sync_false
   :dedent: 4

After asynchronous upload, you can check the status of the Document processing using the `document.update()` method on 
the returned Document object. If the Document is ready, this method will update the Document object with the OCR information.

It's important to note that if the Document is not ready, you may need to call `document.update()` again at a later time. 
This could be done manually or by setting up a looping mechanism depending on your application's workflow.

To check if the document is ready and update it with the OCR information, you can implement a custom pulling strategy 
like this:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start pulling loop
   :end-before: end pulling loop
   :dedent: 4

For a more sophisticated pulling method for asynchronously uploaded Documents using the callback function, you can 
checkout our :ref:`tutorial on how to use ngrok to receive callbacks from the Konfuzio Server<async_upload_with_callback>`.

###### Timeout Parameter

When making a server request, there's a default timeout value of 2 minutes. This means that if the server doesn't respond 
within 2 minutes, the operation will stop waiting for a response and return an error. If you're uploading a larger file, 
it might take more time to process, and the default timeout value might not be sufficient. In such a case, you can 
increase the timeout by setting the timeout parameter to a higher value.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start timeout upload
   :end-before: end timeout upload
   :dedent: 4


#### Modify Document

If you would like to use the SDK to modify some Document's meta-data like the dataset status or the assignee, you can do
it like this:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start assignee
   :end-before: end assignee
   :dedent: 4

#### Update Document
If there are changes in the Document in the Konfuzio Server, you can update your local version of the Document with:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start update_doc
   :end-before: end update_doc
   :dedent: 4

If a Document is part of the Training or Test set, you can also update it by updating the entire Project via
`project.get(update=True)`. However, for Projects with many Documents it can be faster to update only the relevant Documents.

#### Download PDFs
To get the PDFs of the Documents, you can use `get_file()`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get file
   :end-before: end get file
   :dedent: 4

This will download the OCR version of the Document which contains the text, the Bounding Boxes
information of the characters and the image of the Document.

In the Document folder, you will see a new file with the original name followed by "_ocr".

If you want to original version of the Document (without OCR) you can use `ocr_version=False`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get original
   :end-before: end get original
   :dedent: 4

In the Document folder, you will see a new file with the original name.

#### Download pages as images
To get the Pages of the Document as png images, you can use `get_images()`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get images
   :end-before: end get images
   :dedent: 4

You will get one png image named "page_number_of_page.png" for each Page in the Document.

#### Download bounding boxes of the characters
To get the Bounding Boxes information of the characters, you can use `get_bbox()`.

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start get bbox
   :end-before: end get bbox
   :dedent: 4

You will get a file named "bbox.json5".

After downloading these files, the paths to them will also become available in the Project instance.
For example, you can get the path to the file with the Document text with:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start folder
   :end-before: end folder
   :dedent: 4

#### Delete Document

##### Delete Document Locally
To locally delete a Document, you can use:

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start delete
   :end-before: end delete
   :dedent: 4

The Document will be deleted from your local data folder, but it will remain in the Konfuzio Server.
If you want to get it again you can update the Project.

##### Delete Document Online

If you would like to delete a Document in the remote server you can simply use the `Document.delete` method the `delete_online` setting set to `True`. You can only delete Documents with a dataset status of None (0). **Be careful!** Once the Document is deleted online, we will have no way of recovering it. 

.. literalinclude:: /sdk/boilerplates/test_get_started.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: start online_delete
   :end-before: end online_delete
   :dedent: 4

If `delete_online` is set to False (the default), the Document will only be deleted on your local machine, and will be 
reloaded next time you load the Project, or if you run the `Project.init_or_update_document` method directly.
